.\" The ROme OpTimistic Simulator (ROOT-Sim) Manual
.\" written by the High Performance and Dependable Computing Systems
.\" Sapienza, University of Rome
.\" http://www.dis.uniroma1.it/~hpdcs
.\"
.\" Nov 15 2018, Alessandro Pellegrini
.\" 	Revised manpages
.\" May 09 2011, Alessandro Pellegrini
.\" 	First version of the manpages

.TH ROOT-Sim 7 2018-11-15 "The ROme OpTimistic Simulator"

.SH NAME
ROOT-Sim

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ROme OpTimistic Simulator
(ROOT-Sim) is an Open Source, multithreaded parallel/distributed simulation
runtime library developed using
.I C/POSIX technology,
which is based on a simulation kernel
layer that ultimately relies on
.I MPI
for data exchange across different kernel
instances. The platform transparently supports all the mechanisms associated
with parallelization (e.g., mapping of simulation objects on different kernel
instances) and optimistic synchronization (e.g., state recoverability issues).
The runtime environment targets x86_64 systems, and is shipped with a Linux
kernel module which enables additional programmability facilities.


The programming model supported by ROOT-Sim allows the simulation model developer 
to use a simple application-callback function named
.I ProcessEvent()
as the event handler, whose parameters
determine which simulation object is currently taking control for processing its
next event, and where the state of this object is located in memory. 
An object, also called a Logical Process, is a data structure, whose state can
be scattered on dynamically allocated memory chunks, hence the memory address
passed to the callback locates a top level data structure implementing the
object state-layout.


ROOT-Sim is shipped with a numerical rollbackable library, which can be used to
develop model relying on statistical distributions, fullfilling the requirements
needed by a Piece-Wise-Deterministic programming model, i.e. whenever a rollback
operation occurs, the random seed is transparently rolled back, so that the same
exact sequence of random numbers will be provided to the simulation model.

Additionally, several libraries to support arbitrary topologies and Agent-Based Simulation
are integrated in the runtime library.
A description of these libraries is available in the
.I ROOT-Sim.h
manpage.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ProcessEvent (3),
.BR OnGVT (3),
.BR ScheduleNewEvent (3),
.BR SetState (3),
.BR rootsim (3),
.BR ROOT-Sim.h (3)

.SH COPYRIGHT
ROOT-Sim is developed by the
.I High Performance and Dependable Computing Systems
(HPDCS) Group at
.I Sapienza, University of Rome,
all the copyrights belong to the Group, and the software is released under GPL-3 License.


For further details, see the page http://www.dis.uniroma1.it/~hpdcs/ROOT-Sim/
