.\" The ROme OpTimistic Simulator (ROOT-Sim) Manual
.\" written by the High Performance and Dependable Computing Systems
.\" Sapienza, University of Rome
.\" http://www.dis.uniroma1.it/~hpdcs
.\"
.\" Nov 15 2018, Alessandro Pellegrini
.\" 	Revised manpages
.\" May 09 2011, Alessandro Pellegrini
.\" 	First version of the manpages

.TH ScheduleNewEvent 3 2018-11-15 "The ROme OpTimistic Simulator"

.SH NAME
ScheduleNewEvent - Injects new simulation events within the simulation environment.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ROOT-Sim.h>


.B void ScheduleNewEvent(unsigned int \fIto\fP, simtime_t \fItimestamp\fP, int \fIevent_type\fP, void *\fIcontent\fP, unsigned int \fIsize\fP);


.SH DESCRIPTION

ScheduleNewEvent is part of the ROOT-Sim API. It allows the simulation model to generate a new
event and inject it into the system, destined to any simulation object. By using this function,
the application-level programmer can make the simulation advance at the same logical process,
or create interaction between different objects in the system.

The arguments passed to this funtion are:

.IP * 2
\fIto\fP: the global id of the logical processes where the simulation event must be delivered to.
.IP * 2
\fItimestamp\fP: the logical time when the recipient of the event must execute it at.
.IP * 2
\fIevent_type\fP: the numerical code for the event to be injected into the system.
.IP * 2
\fIcontent\fP: the buffer mantaining the event payload.
.IP * 2
\fIsize\fP: the size (in bytes) of the event payload.

.PP

The application-level code can be aware of the total number of the Logical Processes belonging
to the simulation model by using the variable \fIn_prc_tot\fP defined into \fIROOT-Sim.h\fP.
Additionally, the offered topology library allows to implement complex interactions
across the various Logical Processes, mimicking different real-world scenarios.
See that manpage to find further details.

.SH ERRORS

This function returns no errors.

.SH EXAMPLES

See \fIProcessEvent\fP manpage for an example involving ScheduleNewEvent.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ROOT-Sim (7),
.BR ProcessEvent (3),
.BR OnGVT (3),
.BR SetState (3),
.BR rootsim (3),
.BR ROOT-Sim.h (3)

.SH COPYRIGHT
ROOT-Sim is developed by the
.I High Performance and Dependable Computing Systems
(HPDCS) Group at
.I Sapienza, University of Rome,
all the copyrights belong to the Group, and the software is released under GPL-3 License.


For further details, see the page http://www.dis.uniroma1.it/~hpdcs/ROOT-Sim/
